Docs - CDI guide - introduce the "Non-standard Features" section (#5167)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/cdi-reference.adoc

* Interceptor methods on superclasses are not implemented yet
* `BEFORE_COMPLETION`, `AFTER_COMPLETION`, `AFTER_FAILURE` and `AFTER_SUCCESS` transactional observers are not implemented yet

== Non-standard Features

=== Qualified Injected Fields

> In CDI, if you declare a field injection point you need to use `@Inject` and optionally required qualifiers:

Author: Ok. `required qualifiers` is an official term but I agree that your proposal read much better...

> In CDI, if you declare a field injection point you need to use `@Inject` and optionally required qualifiers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CDI, if you declare a field injection point you need to use `@Inject` and optionally a set of qualifiers:
```

 
[source,java]
----
  @Inject
  @ConfigProperty(name = "cool")
  String coolProperty;
----

In Quarkus, you can skip the `@Inject` annotation completely if an injected field declares at least one qualifier:

[source,java]
----
  @ConfigProperty(name = "cool")
  String coolProperty;
----

> NOTE: `@Inject` is still required for constructor and method injection.

Author: I don't think so. The point of this note is to clarify that `@Inject` is **still required** for constructors and initializers...

> NOTE: `@Inject` is still required for constructor and method injection.

Reviewer: Later on we state - `Also if there's only one constructor there is no need for `@Inject`.`
So I just thought the combination of the two can be rather confusing.

> NOTE: `@Inject` is still required for constructor and method injection.

Author: Eh, yes I forgot about this special use case.

> NOTE: `@Inject` is still required for constructor and method injection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: With the notable exception of one special case discussed below, `@Inject` is still required for constructor and method injection.
```

This optimization applies to all forms of bean declarations: bean class, producer method, producer field.

Users can instruct the container to not remove any of their specific beans (even if they satisfy all the rules specified above) by annotating them with `io.quarkus.arc.Unremovable`.
This annotation can be placed on the types, producer methods, and producer fields.
 
Furthermore, extensions can eliminate possible false positives by producing `UnremovableBeanBuildItem`.

Finally, Quarkus provides a middle ground for the bean removal optimization where application beans are never removed whether or not they are unused,
while the optimization proceeds normally for non application classes. To use this mode, set `quarkus.arc.remove-unused-beans` to `fwk` or `framework`.

When using the dev mode (running `mvn clean compile quarkus:dev`), you can see more information about which beans are being removed
by enabling additional logging via the following line in your `application.properties`.

----
quarkus.log.category."io.quarkus.arc.processor".level=DEBUG
----

[[default_beans]]
=== Default Beans

> Quarkus adds a capability that CDI currently does not support which is to conditionally declare a bean if no such bean has been declared in the typical ways Quarkus supports.

Author: Well, I'm not the original author of these senteces... my explanation would be even simpler: https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-dependency-injection/#default-beans

> Quarkus adds a capability that CDI currently does not support which is to conditionally declare a bean if no such bean has been declared in the typical ways Quarkus supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus adds a capability that CDI currently does not support which is to conditionally declare a bean if no other bean with equal types and qualifiers was declared by any available means (bean class, producer, synthetic bean, ...)
```

This is done using the `@io.quarkus.arc.DefaultBean` annotation and is best explained with an example.

Say there is a Quarkus extension that among other things declares a few CDI beans like the following code does:

[source,java]
----
@Dependent
public class TracerConfiguration {

    @Produces
    public Tracer tracer(Reporter reporter, Configuration configuration) {
        return new Tracer(reporter, configuration);
    }

    @Produces
    @DefaultBean
    public Configuration configuration() {
        // create a Configuration
    }

    @Produces
    @DefaultBean
    public Reporter reporter(){
        // create a Reporter
    }
}
----

> The idea is that the extension auto-configures things for user, eliminating a lot of boilerplate - we can just `@Inject` a `Tracer` wherever it is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The idea is that the extension auto-configures things for the user, eliminating a lot of boilerplate - we can just `@Inject` a `Tracer` wherever it is needed.
```
?

Now imagine that in our application we would like to utilize the configured `Tracer`, but we need to customize it a little, for example by providing a custom `Reporter`.
The only thing that would be needed in our application would be something like the following:

[source,java]
----
@Dependent
public class CustomTracerConfiguration {

    @Produces
    public Reporter reporter(){
        // create a custom Reporter
    }
}
----

> `@DefaultBean` allows extensions (or any other code for that matter) to provide defaults while backing off if beans of that type are supplied in any

Reviewer: This is a repetition of the above I think it could removed.

Reviewer: @mkouba apparently, I cannot suggest a multi line code change, but i would still delete this sentence as I think it just repeats what is said/implied from text and code above.
